This trilogy was amazing. Unfortunately I saw the movies first so when I read the book everything I imagined was stuff I had already seen in the movies so sometimes I wish I could've have read the books first and see what I would have imagined the environments and people and creatures of Middle-Earth to look like without the influence of Peter Jackson. Nonetheless, it was still thrilling story with plenty of action and emotion throughout. The characters are beautifully written and like a trilogy should, it left with no cliff hangers on what was to happen next. Everything was beautifully tied up at the end like Aragorn becoming king, the ring being destroyed along with the defeat of Sauron, the safety and peace now in Middle-Earth, and the fact that the hobbits got to go home and be at peace after the adventure. Even though there are some moments that can feel a bit slow and long with Tolkien describing their surroundings (mainly in the beginning of Fellowship of the Ring) if you read through it slowly to understand everything he is saying, you will start getting into the more exciting parts of the book. In my opinion, this book is something everyone must read and enjoy the history of the world that Tolkien created and of course the story he presents you with.
A great series, definitely worth reading. If Harry Potter was good, then this one is legendary. 
That being said, there are two flaws that come up as the books, in their creation, grow older. Firstly, almost of the conflict in the book, and subsequently its plot, revolves around the fact that there is lots of distance between the locations that the characters are at and the one where they want to be. Almost all problems that they face and all battles that they fight are based on the singular fact that they had to get from one place to another and couldn't get there in time or took the more dangerous path while going. This feature also makes the book extremely long, and for the first book and some parts of its sequels it's extremely slow paced and a vivid and accurate description of the path and the surroundings is given. So, here I would recommend you to not race through the book or skim any paragraphs and to understand all locations, characters, descriptions and artefacts that are described for the best experience. This series will take you around 2 weeks to read at an average speed so don’t kid yourself into finishing it soon. Read at your own pace and be patient for the best results.   
Secondly, the ending is one of the most disappointing ones that I have ever read. This is made even harder to accept when one expects a grand finale for a conclusion after reading such masterfully written books. Spoiler alert: Aragorn becomes king of Gondor and the ring bearer eventually leaves the Shire with Bilbo and Gandalf to go to an unknown land. They don’t even see the dark lord, every antagonist except Saruman dies without effort once the quest is completed and even he is killed with relative ease in a throw-away sort of manner. The ending has no pay off what so ever and has a tone of the line ‘happily ever after…’.
Now, that getting out of the way, I shall explain what was good with the books and why this series is a must read. Firstly, one gets to visualise and consequently experience the fantasies and legends that have been penned down. Men, dwarves, elves, wolves, Halflings, orcs, wizards; the works. All sorts of weapons and legendary towers, locations, magic, legends; everything. It is an immersive experience that is extremely satisfactory. The stakes are always high and the suspense keeps you at the edge of your seat. The characters are relatable and likeable. This, on average Is what each book is full of. 
So, regardless of your age, if you like fantasy, I recommend that you read this series. It would be a good idea to start with the prequel- ‘The Hobbit’. Only 2 warnings; Read at your own pace, for, the books are long and descriptive. This way you shall both understand and visualize better. Secondly, although the ending may not be perfect, this is a series that shall, like the legends in it, be well remembered as one of the greatest of its time, in the years to come and shall amaze and delight people, for generations.
The Lord of the Rings felt immensely fake to me; the language didn't flow,and the characters were painted in the broadest strokes.. Galadriel is all light ,love,and flowers; Gallup is black,living in a black hole- slithering, and snake-like.Frodo ,. Iand the Hobbits are a simple,happy peasantry .I was never seriously interested in the lives and escapades of the cast. The Battle of the Trees is a reworking of the Scottish play. Now, people get married with elven vows-as non existent a language as Vulcan. Or whatever they speak in Game of Thrones.                                                                                                              Life was hard in the  Dark and Middle Ages; the peasantry didn't dance and sing. Life wasn't, and isn't fair. Tolkien is a green fantasy land, where good and evil are easily defined.Real Life adventures don't work that way.
i read all the books in Tolkiens Lord of Rings series. To me it was related to Hitlers invasion of Poland and the 2nd world war in general .It was made to be as that war was with Hitler as the war lord and the ring England as he desired our island so much he tried his all to win over us. It was a great read all through .i was about 15 and could not put the books down I had to read it all from start to finish then find the next book in series. The Hobbit was the best of all of them as it set the story so well as an adventure .Then opened into a world of so much friction that blackness of mines and armies of hell marching over the horizon. It was a master piece that fed the mind with energy passion and tears. Still in my mind ,all of it,today 60 years later
To the tear-choked death of Boromir, to the triumph of Gondor, Lord of the Rings has never failed in overripe entertainment and overall attraction.
 Hope and despair is the basis of this tale, but one must discover for themselves what role it plays. The Ring is a symbol of what men will do for power, and is a literal example of power. However, what matters is the fellowship, the bravery, and the will to fight for others so they do not have to fight. Lord of the Rings reflects our world, in times of despair, but tells a tale of perseverance of good. "All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us" (Tolkien). Well, you might as well find out what an Ent is. Lord of the Rings, my favorite, a fantasy, is a true classic. Thank you Mr. Tolkien.
Twenty-five years ago I'd have given The Lord of the Rings my highest possible praise. I came to Tolkien's masterpiece on my own, and that meant much to me at twelve. The only books that had been reached by me alone were books on mythology and horror. Everything else I read, from DH Lawrence to Hemingway to Dickens to Shakespeare (and this also included Dracula and Dr. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde because they were "true" classics), was suggested and sanctioned by my mother (for which I will always owe her deeply).

But The Lord of the Rings was mine and mine alone.

It is easy to forget that The Lord of the Rings was not a pop culture phenomenon in the seventies and early eighties. It was a fringe book (at least in North America), something that was not yet considered a part of the canon, something that was not a name on every boy's lips (even if they were just getting to know D&D) let alone every child's lips. Sure it was respected and loved by those who knew it, but knowing it was not a foregone conclusion as it is today, and its audience was almost completely genre oriented. In my little community (my school and the blocks surrounding my home), I was the first kid to read it.

And that first reading was a revelation. Sure I'd read The Hobbit, but that didn't prepare me for the breadth and depth of The Lord of the Rings. Middle Earth in its grandest incarnation.

To create a fantasy world is one thing, but to breathe life into ages of that world, to keep all the pieces together with such magnificent detail and rigour, to create character after believable character and make us care about most of them, even poor Smeagol/Gollum, that is a literary labour of Hercules. And by pulling it off, Tolkien created the single most important manifestation of Fantasy that has ever and will ever be written. The Lord of the Rings has rightly been named a classic. It is part of the canon, and it deserves its place. It is entertaining, it is weighty, and it is loved by nearly all.

Aye...and there's the rub.

Its indisputable greatness has made it indisputable.

It has become dogma among fanboys and fangirls that the bastions of The Lord of the Rings are unassailable. Criticize Tolkien's work -- academically or otherwise -- and you put yourself in almost as much danger as a chatty atheist trying to engage in a theological discussion in a coliseum full of Jehovah's Witnesses (how many of those folks will make it into the afterlife? Isn't there a limit?).

Feminist critics point out the lack of women in The Lord of the Rings, and that those women who are present fulfill only the narrowest stereotypes. Éowyn's strength is dependent upon adopting male gender qualities, a typical stereotype of "powerful women in fantasy," and she is alone amongst the Rohirrim as a woman who can and will fight. All other women in her culture are present as a reason to fight rather than as integral parts of the struggle. Arwen's place (in the books, at least) as a maiden waiting for the hand of her king takes the "reason to fight" to even greater heights. And the only powerful female, Galadriel as the terrible, beautiful elven Queen, is too far removed from mortality and reality to be anything more than a mid-tale deus ex machina, thereby removing her from the realm of women and men and making her a pseudo-god whose power is allowed only because it is arcane and mysterious.

Post-Colonial critics have latched onto the racism inherent in The Lord of the Rings, pointing out the hierarchies between the races: from the "superiority" of the elves, to the "chosen" role of "European" Men of the West under the leadership of Aragorn, to the lesser races of Dwarves and Hobbits (the former are "lesser" because they are "too greedy" and the latter are "lesser" because they are children). Post-Colonialists look to the "orientalization" of Sauron's forces and the configuration of evil as an inherent quality of Orcs and "the dark folk." They point out Tolkien's family's history as a cog in the mechanism of English Imperialism, and his own birth in one of the most blatantly racist colonies of all, South Africa (while he did leave at three years old, his family's presence there at all suggests that some of the classic colonial opinions about the colonized "dark races" helped form the man who wrote these books), as possible reasons for this racism.

These criticisms further suggest, at least to me, that the archetypal source of all fantasy's entrenched racism -- even those books being written today -- is The Lord of the Rings. Those fantasy authors who have followed Tolkien consistently and inescapably embrace his configuration of the races (yes, even those like R.A. Salvatore who try and fail to derail this configuration) and the concepts of good and evil that go along with them, which leads to the stagnation and diminishment of their genre.

The fact is that these flaws do exist in The Lord of the Rings. They are present. They are easy to find. But few of Tolkien's rabid fans want to hear about them.

And even when the criticism is not necessarily suggesting a flaw in Tolkien's work but merely the presence of some subtext, the dogmatists react with rage and condemnation. A fine example of this is when Queer and Gender theorists point to the overwhelming relationships between men, and how the relationship between Frodo and Sam is homosocial, at least, and possibly even homosexual. The only true intimacy in the book occurs between the men, after all, and to ignore that fact is to ignore one of key components of why The Lord of the Rings is so emotionally satisfying, especially to young men.

Even faced with these ideas supported by convincing arguments, however, many fans either strive for ignorance or attack the messenger. This may have much to do with the worry -- unreasonable though it is -- that to admit that a flaw or something uncomfortable exists in any of these books, which so many people love so deeply, is to accept that The Lord of the Rings is neither great nor worthy of love.

But this is not the case.

I love The Lord of the Rings even though I subscribe completely to the post-colonial criticism, and see the merits in both the feminine and queer criticisms, not to mention the countless other criticisms and subtexts that are floating around.

The books are racist; they are sexist. They are not perfect. And I must criticize the elements of The Lord of the Rings that make me uncomfortable and deserve no praise. But my complaints and the complaints of critics make Tolkien's achievement no less great.

Tolkien created the most magnificent imaginary world ever conceived, and, for good or ill, Fantasy would be nothing today were it not for him. The Lord of the Rings is a triumph on countless levels, but it is not the word of God, nor should it be elevated to such heights.

I love The Lord of the Rings, but I love it with reservations. I love it because of its place in my personal mythology, its genuine originality, its creativity, its power, but I love it with my mind open to its flaws, and I refuse to make excuses for Tolkien or his work.

Twenty-five years ago I'd have given The Lord of the Rings my highest possible praise. Not today. But I am still willing to admit my love. 

The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by English author and scholar J. R. R. Tolkien.

The story began as a sequel to Tolkien's 1937 fantasy novel The Hobbit, but eventually developed into a much larger work.

Written in stages between 1937 and 1949, The Lord of the Rings is one of the best-selling novels ever written, with over 150 million copies sold.

The title of the novel refers to the story's main antagonist, the Dark Lord Sauron, who had in an earlier age created the One Ring to rule the other Rings of Power as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth. (Nineteen of these rings were made. These were grouped into three rings for the Elves, seven rings for the Dwarves, and nine rings for men. One additional ring, the One Ring, was forged by Sauron himself at Mount Doom.).

From quiet beginnings in the Shire, a hobbit land not unlike the English countryside, the story ranges across Middle-earth, following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters, not only the hobbits Frodo Baggins, Samwise "Sam" Gamgee, Meriadoc "Merry" Brandybuck and Peregrin "Pippin" Took, but also the hobbits' chief allies and travelling companions: the Men, Aragorn son of Arathorn, a Ranger of the North, and Boromir, a Captain of Gondor; Gimli son of Glóin, a Dwarf warrior; Legolas Greenleaf, an Elven prince; and Gandalf, a wizard. ....
